.TH asmem 1 "18 September 2003" "Version 1.10"
.UC
.SH NAME
\fBasmem\fP \- the AfterStep memory utilization monitor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B asmem
[-h] [-H] [-V]
        [-iconic] [-withdrawn] [-standout]
        [-used] [-asis] [-free] [-mb]
        [-position \fI[+|-]x[+|-]y\fP]
        [-u \fIupdate rate\fP]
        [-dev \fIdevice\fP]
        [-display \fIdisplay\fP]
        [-bg \fIcolor\fP]
        [-fg \fIcolor\fP]
        [-memory \fIcolor\fP]
        [-buffer \fIcolor\fP]
        [-cache \fIcolor\fP]
        [-swap \fIcolor\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBasmem\fP is a X11 application that acts as
a memory utilization monitor. It shows the current
amount of memory and swap space, the free amounts
of those, and the bars representing graphically the
different types of memory.

The display consists of two areas. The one above shows utilization
of the memory, the one below - the utilization of the swap
space. Each area contains a graphical bar that represents the
percentage of the occupied space. For the memory utilization
there are three bars: user/system memory used, buffer memory
and cache memory. For the swap space only one bar showing the
used space. Above each bar is the total amount of space, below
the bar - the available space in kbytes and percents. If the
memory amount is above 999999 kbytes the displays switches
to Mbytes instead of kbytes.

It is possible to force the display into Mbytes. You can also
ask asmem to display the occupied memory amounts and percentages
rather than those still available.

.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
.IP "-h or -H"
.RS
Prints a short description and usage message.
.RE
.IP "-V"
.RS
Version control. Prints out the version of the program.
.RE
.IP "-position [+|-]x[+|-]y"
.RS
Displays the window at the specified location
on the screen. This works like the standard X Windows
geometry option. (See XParseGeometry (3x)).
.RE
.IP "-iconic"
.RS
Starts the \fBasmem\fP application in the iconized mode.
The icon has the same appearance with the main
window.
When this option is given, the -position refers to
the position of the icon window as well as the main window.
.RE
.IP "-withdrawn"
.RS
Starts the \fBasmem\fP application in the withdrawn mode.
This option is necessary to be able to dock the
\fBasmem\fP in the WindowMaker dock.
When this option is given, the -position refers to
the position of the icon window as well as the main window.
\fBasmem\fP ignores the -iconic option when started
in withdrawn mode.
.RE
.IP "-standout"
.RS
This changes the appearance of the \fBasmem\fP display from
"pushed-in" to "popped-out". The first is the default look.
The "popped-out" applets look much better in WindowMaker's dock
according to some opinions. Give it a try in any case.
.RE
.IP "-used"
.RS
By default \fBasmem\fP displays the amount of memory or swap
space still left unused. This switch tells \fBasmem\fP to
display the amounts of memory and swap space already in use.
This switch affects the percentages displayed in accordance.
.RE
.IP "-asis"
.RS
Uses an alternative number for the display of the free memory.
Or, rather, by default an alternative amount is used. When this
switch is specified, the applet displays the amount of memory
free as reported by the /proc/meminfo. Sometimes this is not
really helpful since the occupied memory includes the file system
cache and the buffers space. When this switch is not specified
\fBasmem\fP will add the cache space and the buffer space to the
amount of the actual free memory since both of those may be
discarded by the OS to free up some memory for the programs.
.RE
.IP "-free"
.RS
Exactly the same as \fB-asis\fP. Provided for backward
compatibility. Obsolete. Do not use. Use \fB-asis\fP instead.
.RE
.IP "-mb"
.RS
Force the display in MBytes instead of kilobytes even if
the numbers would fit into the window.
.RE
.IP "-u <update rate>"
.RS
Changes the polling rate for updating the memory 
utilization information.
The update rate is specified in seconds. The value
of 1 is the minimum. Default value is 1 second.
.RE
.IP "-dev <device>"
.RS
The device that should be polled for the memory utilization
information. On Linux, this defaults to \fI/proc/meminfo\fP
.RE
.IP "-display <name>"
.RS
The name of the display to start the window in.
It works just as X Windows display option.
.RE
.IP "-bg <color>"
.RS
Changes the color of the background of the applet.
Default colour is #303030.
.RE
.IP "-fg <color>"
.RS
Changes the color of the foreground of the applet.
Default colour is #20b2aa.
.RE
.IP "-memory <color>"
.RS
Changes the color of the bar that represents the used
memory amount.
Default colour is #4141d7.
.RE
.IP "-buffer <color>"
.RS
Changes the color of the bar that represents the memory
used for buffers.
Default colour is #aa80aa.
.RE
.IP "-cache <color>"
.RS
Changes the color of the bar that represents the memory
used for caching.
Default colour is #bebebe.
.RE
.IP "-swap <color>"
.RS
Changes the color of the bar that represents the swap
space utilization level.
Default colour is #ffa649.
.RE
.SH INVOCATION
\fBasmem\fP can be called in different ways.  The most 
common invocation is the command line:
.nf

	user@host[1]% asmem -bg blue -fg white &

.fi
Another way to call \fBasmem\fP is from the window manager:
.nf

	*Wharf "asmem" nil Swallow "asmem" asmem &

.fi
This line, when placed in the \fIwharf\fP file in the user's Afterstep
configuration directory will cause \fBasmem\fP to be a
button on the \fBWharf (1)\fP button bar under the \fBafterstep (1)\fP
window manager.

If you run WindowMaker then you should use the "-withdrawn"
option:
.nf

	user@host[1]% asmem -withdrawn -standout &

.fi
and then drag the icon to the dock.
.SH BUGS
My programs do not have bugs, they just develop random
features ;-)
.PP
Well, there are limitations. All the strings for the
color names, display name, and the geometry have the
length limit of 50 characters (terminating zero included). 
The string copying routine cuts the names that are longer.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR proc (5)
.SH COPYRIGHTS
Copyright (c) 1999-2003  Albert "Tigr" Dorofeev <albert@tigr.net>

Distributed under GNU General Public License v2 ; 
see LICENSE file for more informations.
.SH AUTHORS
Albert "Tigr" Dorofeev <albert@tigr.net>

See the README file for credits.
.sp
